# What git concepts were you struggling with prior to the GPS session?

Prior to this session, I was a bit unclear about the path the commit took to 
end up at the origin. I wondered if perhaps a change in a branch was first 
merged to the master, and then from the master, it was then pushed off to 
Github. It was clarified to me that commits from branches are pushed directly to 
github, and then await a merge to the github repo. I know either path would get 
my changes to github, but I wanted to make sure my method was in line with what 
everyone else was doing. I'm glad to get resolution on this.

# What concepts were clarified during the GPS?

A few things came into better focus. This was my first GPS session. I went into 
it fairly blindly, and quickly figured out how it worked and what it was about. 
The process of navigating and driving became clear. This was my first google 
hangouts screenshare. I didn't know if the navigator could move the driver's 
mouse cursor and type on the other's screen. I learned that the navigator is in 
a read-only position. I learned more about Google hangouts as well - 
specifically how to enable the screenshare, how to stop broadcasting to 
everyone, and I used the chat feature for the first time. I learned that if you 
encapsulate text in the chat with asterices, it makes the words bold. That was a 
bit of an accidental discovery during some copy and paste bewteen driver and 
navigator. 

In addition to learning about the GPS process and its mechanisms, I also gained 
some knowledge about git functions. I learned that: I created a branch with "git 
branch branchname" and then switched to that branch with "git checkout 
branchname", but there is a shortcut - I could just use "git checkout -b 
branchname" that condenses both of my commands into one. Through normal use of 
git in this session, and also watching my partner use it, my familiarity with 
git solidified a bit more. I feel quite comfortable with the pieces of it that 
we have used so far, and that makes me feel pretty good. Prior to the GPS this 
evening, I was thinking to myself that I really need to invest some time into 
figuring out exactly what I don't know and getting better at those things. I 
still intend to do this for good measure, but the GPS contributed to that goal.

# What questions did you ask your pair and the guide?

I asked my guide about the path commit takes (regarding the confusion I 
described above), and I received clarification. Questions I asked my pair were 
just simple things related to our challenge (things like: did we remember to do 
this? did we push the right branch? etc). Mostly all the discussion pretained 
exclusively to completing the challenge. My pair and I communicated at the end 
of the session, making sure we both understood what we did, and we needed to do 
individually to complete the session (writing this reflection).

# What still confuses you about git?

I am feeling pretty good about git at the moment. One of the only things that I 
can think of that confuses me is: if you are in a branch and create a file, then 
you switch branches, the file vanishes in the directory. I do a 'pwd' to verify 
that I am in the same place on the filesystem where I created the file, but it's 
not there. I completely understand why git doesn't want me to see it: because it 
doesn't actually exist in the branch where I don't see it. I am just curious 
where git tucks it away - perhaps in a hidden directory or some journal it keeps 
for version tracking. I'll figure it out though. It's an itch I'll need to 
scratch.

# How was your first experience of pairing in a GPS?

I really enjoyed my first GPS. My pair seemed to be right on the same level that 
I was, meaning we both were familiar with everything, and we both tripped over a 
couple things and figured them out together. Our guide popped in with timely and 
useful information to keep our progress moving and to address things we had 
previously wondered about. The mechanism of the GPS (hangout video chat) worked 
very well, and is a great collaboration tool I am glad to learn about. The 
interaction between me, my pair and our guide was very comfortable and 
respectful. There was no feeling of competition or uneasiness. In summary, I 
feel like together as a pair, we were better able to accomplish our challenge 
than individuals as two pairs of eyes and two brains quickly identifies and 
resolves little syntax errors (for example) that might cause an individual to 
get hung up longer. I'm very pleased with the experience, and I look forward to 
this collaborative process we'll be doing a lot more of!
